---
title: "1st Yonsei AI Workshop"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-10-07-talk-1
venue: "Yonsei University, Department of Artificial Intelligence"
date: 2022-10-07
location: "Sinchon, South Korea"
---

**De novo molecular design with deep molecular generative models for PPI inhibitors**  
**Jianmin Wang**, Yanyi Chu , Jiashun Mao , Hyeon-Nae Jeon, Haiyan Jin, Amir Zeb, Yuil Jang, Kwang-Hwi Cho, Tao Song and Kyoung Tai No   

[Yonsei_AI_Workshop 2022-Poster](https://jianmin2drugai.github.io/files/Yonsei_AI_Workshop-2022-poster.pdf)

We construct a protein–protein interaction (PPI) targeted drug-likeness dataset and propose a deep molecular generative framework to generate novel drug-likeness molecules from the features of the seed compounds. This framework gains inspiration from published molecular generative models, uses the key features associated with PPI inhibitors as input and develops deep molecular generative models for de novo molecular design of PPI inhibitors. For the first time, quantitative estimation index for compounds targeting PPI was applied to the evaluation of the molecular generation model for de novo design of PPI-targeted compounds. Our results estimated that the generated molecules had better PPI-targeted drug-likeness and drug-likeness. Additionally, our model also exhibits comparable performance to other several state-of-the-art molecule generation models. The generated molecules share chemical space with iPPI-DB inhibitors as demonstrated by chemical space analysis. The peptide characterization-oriented design of PPI inhibitors and the ligand-based design of PPI inhibitors are explored. Finally, we recommend that this framework will be an important step forward for the de novo design of PPI-targeted therapeutics.
